# Unpaved_Road_Condition_Monitoring

Canada has roughly 60% (about 626,000 KM) of the public road network classified as low volume unpaved gravel roads while in the US it amounts to 53% (about 2.6 million KM) of the national road network. Poor maintenance of these roads indirectly increases vehicle operation cost by roughly 15%, also it affects the ride quality and decreases the level of service that a pavement has to offer. Therefore, it is necessary to identify these irregularities as soon as possible to allow for its timely maintenance. This was carried out through Manual condition assessment which has been a popular approach up to early 2000s. Development of technology has led to improved survey and assessment techniques such as image processing, LiDAR and using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV). Another new, innovative way to do this is through the use of sensor package available on smartphones combined with machine learning techniques. The aim of this paper is to review existing methods already available in the literature, and present a research into the use of smartphones for classification of unpaved roads utilizing the machine learning techniques including K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) and Support Vector Machines (SVM). The results of the classifiers are also discussed along with comparisons which highlight the upper hand SVM has over other classifiers. The criteria for evaluation are Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F1-score. The appendix contains the MATLAB codes used in the process
